all right welcome to the micro service
and service observability talk everybody
thanks for showing up my name is clay
Smith I'm a developer advocate in New
Relic and really excited to be talking
about this especially with the
announcements this morning around
faregates and cabrillo days for ECS a
new relic if you don't know us we have a
number of different solutions for
monitoring and having Analects around
solutions that run on the cloud or on
prim and because of that we've been
talking to a lot of our customers the
past year and a half and we've seen a
massive amount of interest in serverless
compute technology specifically AWS
lambda and the the purpose or the
inspiration behind this talk was we've
seen this pattern over and over again
that as people move to service computing
architectures the focus for this talk
later will be specifically lambda but
just in general a lot of the assumptions
and best practices in playbooks
for monitoring those workloads in those
serverless compute environments it does
change and with that in mind this talk
really tries get into that a bit and
we'll wrap up with the lambda case study
we were running headless chrome and a
Miss lambda and learned some interesting
performance things around that and then
Marcus Ervin will join us the end for
Q&A on a recent recent project his team
just launched in production sort of jump
right in observability has been
discussed a lot especially if you follow
the monitoring people on twitter the
clearest definition and I and why I
think it is important is that it gets to
an idea that's not necessarily
monitoring but it's a good conversation
starter and specifically it has this
focus on how well do we understand the
workloads that we're running in the
cloud or on prim from the work they do
and how good is that and can we make it
better to ultimately make the systems we
build a design better as well and so
observability whether you like the term
or not or just want to call it
monitoring that's not necessarily the
the key point or takeaway but I think
it's a really important discussion
especially as we look
these new software architectures like
lambda or consider or try and build some
sort of next generation system so
observability I think is really nice for
at least starting the conversation
around how well do you understand what's
actually going on in these environments
related and I think also really
important is this idea of
instrumentation so we have workloads
running in some service whether it's a
traditional VM or something
next-generation like far gate how do we
understand what that code is actually
doing when it's actually responding to
an active request and instrumentation
not a new idea at all but it just gets
this idea of what events we want to
measure in code to understand what that
code is actually doing in production
responding to a real request and so
these this idea of observability and
instrumentation I think it's coming up a
lot more especially when we talk about
lambda and have container orchestration
systems because it gets two really
important ideas of actually
understanding what's going on in the
first place the agenda for this talk and
where we'll go where we're gonna go here
the first bit is really a discussion of
a lot of the architectures we see
different customers moving to since this
is a server list track talk a lot of
that should be familiar
we will go then into kind of the role
different data types play in
understanding new architectures and
potentially how that's different from
older legacy architectures we'll end up
with some just kind of higher level
requirements and then from there and
this is kind of the more fun part we're
actually going to try and put some of
those in practice looking at a large
lambda function and then lastly we'll be
talking with with Marcus with a QA and
there'll be time for audience questions
at the end too so stay tuned at the this
talk the AWS reinvent talks of get
prepared for all speakers pretty long in
advance so in the spring of this year
there was a little bit of a side project
of trying to understand the history of
monitoring are kind of where we came
from and it turns out that all of the
IBM system/360 manuals have actually
been
and or online and so the really
interesting question was well how has
monitoring changed from the late 60s
when you were wearing a lab coat looking
at a mainframe and surprisingly two
things stuck out that are mostly the
same at least kind of in practice one
you want to have visibility into in the
different execution paths so the
mainframe does something you want to
know what happens along different paths
that's still true today and then in the
event of a failure IBM system/360 would
actually print out the entire contents
of memory for debugging and so this idea
of a stack trace or understanding the
state of the program when it failed
that's also true too
there was some patch card stuff that we
obviously no longer use though so yes
the workplace has changed we don't to
wear lab coats anymore but the
architectures themselves have obviously
evolved very quickly - we're looking at
things on mobile edge computing IOT /
the keynotes announcements today but I
think that same desire or that same
necessity as an operator or developer to
know what the state of the program is
during its execution that still is the
same many years later one of the most
common patterns we've seen our customers
migrates here the past few years is it's
not a surprising one for anyone here
it's this idea of taking a very large
monolithic application we see a lot of
these written in Java and you're gonna
break into parts and in different ways
into either SOA or micro services what
gets really interesting though
especially with the growth and different
AWS managed services is that as you
decompose a monolith into different
micro services a lot of those components
might just be fully managed AWS services
different AI tools things like in
Candido and I think that's really
interesting because even though you
might be running your own code that code
is now interacting with AWS managed
services and the monitoring or
visibility requirements are slightly
different when you're looking at those
interactions
the other the other thing that's pretty
interesting too is that we see more
customers deploying to more than one
80's region not necessarily a super
surprising trends but we recently did
just last week a study of everyone using
our alias lambda integration and we
found that generally people that were
using lambda different accounts that
we're using lambda functions that were
monitored with new relic were deployed
in a single AWS region but there was a
really interesting percentage of
accounts that were deployed in many many
regions slightly less than 1% a single
account
we're running lambdas in around nine
different AWS regions so it's really I
think opening up some really fascinating
use cases around people running code and
multiple regions around the world for
different reasons and lastly with the
improvements we've seen recently to
lambda at edge we can now run more
complex workloads directly on the edge
in lambda functions the compute is it
getting physically closer to customers
and obviously IOT is kind of an
extension of that as well so globally
distributed it's getting closer to
customers and we're having more
components to play with the switch to
SOA or micro services on top of all that
the compute workloads themselves are
fairly short-lived we new relic monitors
docker containers and we did a study in
early spring of this year of what's the
lifetime of those containers so how long
does the docker container actually stick
around this is the distribution sorry
for the lack of labels on the graph but
it's from one to 100 minutes in 1 minute
buckets and you can see here from this
this heavy the distribution is is very
short-lived so the median is around a
couple of minutes and that's really
interesting because as people move to
these new environments they're not
necessarily doing this not necessarily
lifting and shifting in the existing
application architecture and do a large
container it's scaling up and down and
those containers are very short-lived
so kind of interesting there all-in-all
more people tell us or say something
along the lines that they're running
something that resembles or looks a lot
like a very complex distributed system
this is just the service map service
maps or diagrams of relationships
between services are always good for
defending how complex your distributed
system is Netflix probably has the most
famous one I think they call it the
Deathstar diagram this is a much simpler
one but I guess is the same idea that we
have a simple web application here that
has a database and as a mobile web app
but the number of components continues
to grow I think the good news here and
historically we tend to get better at
operating in these kinds of environments
it's not a hopeless situation people
there there certainly challenges in
building and designing and operating
software that's globally distributed in
ephemeral components using hybrid
architectures but generally we know that
we do get better at it over time and I
think a really key part of that and one
thing that helps a lot is having data to
actually help through that process and
the technical reasons aren't necessarily
all that's surprising obviously having
good data and visibility helps with
debugging and troubleshooting just like
IBM system/360 knowing the state of the
program when it fails pretty useful much
earlier in the process before you're
even writing a line of code having data
to validate designs so based on previous
systems using that operational data to
inform the design of next generation or
new systems what actually works what
should we build reducing defects caching
the issues before they become a serious
problem and ultimately for the business
using all that to move faster and that's
moving faster gets in this idea of
cultural shifts and that's some how can
the data actually help people work
together on a team and the one thing we
hear a lot about and this is very
related to DevOps there's this idea of
building transparency across teams
having that shared reference points
especially when the components are
fairly complex
and moving to this model where decisions
are data informed and not necessarily
driven by guessing or kind of picking
the newest trendy framework one thing
that's really important I think for
people in practitioner roles is the
ability to have freedom to experiment
try new architectures try new ways of
doing things
but not necessarily being prevented from
doing that because there's some you know
white paper that's it insists that there
must be there must be a single process
for doing it correctly and lastly we get
to the kind of more of the post-mortem
situations where when things do break
that's it's not necessarily the fault of
one individual or one change it's a
complex system there's there's really no
no blame that can be associated with one
person so between all that I think we
get to this idea in order to get to that
good data in order to actually
understand what these workloads are
doing regardless of whether they run in
lambda or kubernetes cluster how do we
actually understand what it's doing and
I think instrumentation is a really key
part of that the the really interesting
question and and the thing that I've
been working on especially with a double
slam de the past years so is you know
assuming we believe that data is
important I think that's that's a good
place to start
and that instrumentation that helps us
get better visibility into workloads as
they run in new things specifically in
the Animas lambda environments or with
different emerging micro service
architectures Fargate obviously is the
newest one as of this morning
how do we actually make that code
observer bill observable how do we
actually know what it does and and how
it works we've kind of broken it down
into three different requirements and
the first one of course is that's there
are different data types available for
these different systems and logging is
great metrics are great traces are
useful but over reliance on one we find
typically misses some opportunities and
actually understanding how the system
works
a good example would be metrics so if
you want to answer the question is my
response time slower this week or last
week metrics are great for answering
that question you have a Vince with the
measurements over some time series and
you can answer that pretty easily if
you're measuring response time in the
first place
logs of course the raw human readable
machine data useful for debugging so if
the database won't start on a server
you'll inevitably be looking at logs and
traces and traces I think are especially
interesting with lambda and different
micro service architectures because
they're actually establishing a
relationship between events on different
systems so it can answer things like
what are the dependencies or even for a
single request for a single service
what's the breakdown in time between
different methods and different external
calls and I think the combination of all
three of those some people have called
these the the three golden data types
observer ability I think using all three
in deciding which what the balance is
between the three can be really useful
in understanding what's actually
happening the difficulty of course is
that if you have a new modern micro
service you built from scratch with this
mindset in mind with this mindset you
might have really good observability
into a single service but obviously it's
more than just back in components
especially as we look at things like
edge computing and eventually IOT so you
have mobile and browser applications
talking to multiple applications they
might be running in different containers
or different operating systems inside an
ec2 instance and in that intern is
probably interacting with lots of
different AWS managed services so having
visibility into only one of these
components doesn't really tell the
entire story so it's having full
coverage of all of those different
components together and the last thing
and this is this is kind of interesting
too because there's this perception that
that's instrumentation manual
instrumentation especially getting full
coverage across a large team in
different offices around the world is
very slow process and it's hard to get
there and it requires a lot of tedious
work and in some say in some cases if
the service is old enough
perhaps the expert on that service you
would like visibility into no longer
works in the company or has moved on or
been promoted to a new project we do
hear that a lot so there's this idea I
think this has related this this
practice of observability that's
instrumentation should be built in to
everything you run and build and some of
our largest customers in the relative
actually started experiment with this
idea and created dedicated observability
engineering teams which is an
interesting way to kind of make this a
practice company-wide so across those
three things I think it's it's a good
it's a good point to kind of pivot to a
nub use lambda itself so I've talked a
lot about a lot at this point around you
know metrics logs traces observability
of how that works why that matters I
think it's important to actually back
that up with with an example here and a
team is lambda is a specifically
interesting one because of the
constraints of the runtime environment
and because abs manages the
infrastructure the lambda runs on a lot
of the practices we have for servers
don't necessarily apply directly to
lambda we can't really look at host CPU
percentage for a lambda function running
of on the internal lambda service for
example so what does that actually look
like Amazon provides some observability
automatically obviously a set of cloud
watch metrics and logs if you log it to
a lambda function it'll appear in cloud
watch and the metrics specifically there
there's a different sets depending on
the service we've got invitations and
duration and throttles the one we'll be
focusing on for this case study
specifically is duration the lambda
function is a fairly large a fairly
large one it's it's running headless
Chrome as I said earlier so what we're
really interested in is making sure the
duration is
is fast the function is very fast and it
runs quickly obviously for billing
reasons the other thing and I guess this
week at reinvent it would be celebrating
it's it's your anniversary is of course
a WS s a Tobias x-ray which is which is
a service provided by a POS that allows
you to trace requests between different
a Tobias magnetic components the really
interesting thing about x-ray and the
really useful thing if you're going down
the path of debugging a Tobias lamda
performance is x-ray when enabled for
lamda actually exposes some really
interesting internal details that you
can't actually observe from the
perspective of your application code
running in lamda and the really big one
and the really interesting one is this
idea of cold starts in a Tobias lambda
functions so we talk about Amos lamda
performance there's been a lot written
about this if you go to server list
conferences there's always a cold start
talk but the really nice thing is if you
enable x-ray for lambda function you
actually see how much time is spent in
the internal lamda service so when the
internal amber service actually receives
the request and then when your function
actually starts executing and so if you
look at these this table there's the a
torus lamda and a nativist lambda
function if you compare the difference
between the two you can actually measure
a cold start time and by that I mean the
latency between when the internal aw
lambdas service receives the request to
invoke your function and then when your
code actually starts running and so
there's some internal setup obviously
the has to be done to create the
environment to run your function code
really interesting and available
visually in v8 of your slammed sorry in
the AWS x-ray UI if we run this same
function again it looks slightly
different you notice there's no large
difference between the internal lamda
service and your function and that's
because it's a warm start so there's no
set-up time and your function
initialization code doesn't have to run
either so it was essentially looking at
this x-ray trace data
they wanted to ask a lot of questions
around performance of this lambda
function and specifically we know that
we have different numbers in a trace and
a trace happens at a particular time so
if we aggregate the traces and we know
what time the numbers in those traces
happened we can ultimately turn those
traces into metrics and we can answer a
couple of really interesting performance
questions that before the x-ray
integration existed you really put an
answer very easily at all and
specifically the really big one and the
important one is where's time actually
being spending the function but more
importantly especially if you're
wondering if cold starts are impacting
your performance is that an issue at all
our cold starts actually impacting the
way people interact with the function
and of course understanding that over
time not surprisingly to actually pull
data out of x-ray there's an API and
like almost every very service this code
is on github there's a Atos Amazon Cloud
watch scheduled event it pulls data from
the x-ray API every few minutes and it
sends it to new relics events event
database insights for further analytics
and so after we've pulled in the trace
data over a 24-hour period for our
lambda function that's running headless
chrome we're actually gonna be able to
see what that looks like and actually
kind of answer some of these questions
we had around performance and if we
actually look at the data and we write a
few queries around it we see a couple of
interesting things right off the bat
first of all the lambda function itself
the the first graph here it's on a scale
of zero to five seconds so our lambda
function is obviously much much slower
than the internal lambda service it's
not surprisingly you know kudos to the
lambda engineering team the lander
service is frequently very very fast in
this case most the time is spent in your
function itself or in this function
from there we can answer that we can ask
the question we know how often cold
starts happen whenever this functions
vocht over of 24 hour period does that
happen very frequently are we actually
hitting performance issues with the
lambda function and if we look at the
number of initializations that are
nonzero so this is the number of finish
from traces that actually have a cold
start happening it's very very low so
for this lambda function thousands of
invitations cold starts only happened
around one and a half percent of all all
requests we can then look into the
timing information so for those one and
a half percent of functioning vacations
that actually did have a cold start how
long did it take to actually initialize
my code so my my code that I'm
responsible for and the lambda function
and if we graph that over the same time
period we see two peaks one around 200
milliseconds and one around 500
milliseconds but the interesting thing
about that and why we've gone so deep
into how long that takes
is we wanted to answer the question you
know in some cases this lambda function
my code takes up to five seconds - and
it to actually run is that five second
duration actually being significantly
impacted by say Mike's my code slowly
initializing and because it's only
taking 200 or 500 milliseconds in the
worst case we can say it's it's fairly
unlikely
so looking at that and kind of looking
at that analysis like well if we want to
optimize the performance of the code
running the lambda function it's not
cold starts it's not the internal lambda
service it's it's our function code
itself and because it's the Chrome
binary so an application that was
ultimately written to run on desktops
the question was well maybe it's under
provisioned with memory and it turns out
if we run the same analysis again so we
look at the distribution of duration for
for the function code it does not
surprisingly get faster if we give it
more memory so just over a gigabyte of
memory from 768 megabytes it does get
faster you see the the distribution
shift to the the left there this gets to
a really counterintuitive and really
interesting point though by increasing
the memory the lambda function this
actually decreased our bill so because
an abuse lambdas build in 100
millisecond increments we made the
function faster by giving it more memory
but we made the function fast basically
the function got so much faster that it
lowered the bill because it was just
executing work more quickly so it's it's
this kind of counterintuitive point that
wasn't
it all clear to me when I was first kind
of working with lambda that more
resources more memory it doesn't
necessarily mean your bill will get
higher if your code actually executes
much faster it's likely your bill will
go down so a really really interesting
point around performance tuning and
because it impacts your bill I think it
also underscores for for complex
functions that run a lot potentially a
lot of cost savings there as well to
kind of do this tuning in the first
place um I want to kind of wrap that up
with a few just a few high-level lessons
and then we'll jump into Q&A with Marcus
but I think you know from this case
study we were able to at least explore
some of these ideas with real data that
instrumentation whether it was custom
instrumentation we built with our server
list stuff that pulled in x-ray traces
and then data analytics or what's built
in with x-ray it was looking at
different metrics different trace data
and also logs during development to
figure out what was actually happening
and then once all that was in place we
put it into a solution that allowed us
to really explore that we did not know
going in or putting the data in what
exactly we wanted to know from the data
it was only after we explored it that
this kind of insight came out in the
first place so it's that it's that um
that's tradition of going from
observability to having the
instrumentation to actually being able
to answer and explore interesting
questions and from there I think well
we'll invite Marcus Irvin up from
Scripps Networks and we'll be discussing
his recent endeavor Solyndra project
will give Marcus a hands
yeah thanks Fergus yeah absolutely so
Marcus I know you just recently been
successfully deployed to production a
fairly large Avery slammed her projects
I was curious though just what what are
you currently working on and you know
what do you do with scripts yeah sure so
like I said I work at Scripps Networks
might not be familiar with Scripps
Networks be I'm sure you're familiar
with our brains we own Food Network HGTV
Travel Channel juniors kitchen and a few
other things I'm an architect and I
manage a team that builds focused on
KPIs for a long time that was really
focused on building and api's for our
mobile applications the last couple of
years we've sort of branched out we were
[Music]
boys and facebook Messenger BOTS and etc
etc and from there we started to
leverage the work that we did on mobile
and kind of started building more of a
micro service architecture to some to be
able to share some of some you know what
we do that's great that's so how long
have you been using Amazon Web Services
scripts we've been using him for Pella
about five or six years and I've been
using it for a little bit longer than
that all right and so tell me about like
your your very first lambda project I
know you just implemented a fairly large
system but kind of how did you get
started yeah the first time I use lambda
was a couple years ago we were we were
building a new version of our food
network what will happen and we were
using API gateway and we needed to do
some custom authorization and EPA
gateway supports using lambda 2 to do
authorization every request and I was
though the first time over use land
it was super successful all right and
it's kind of fast forward to the past
several months you've been working on a
fairly new service can you kind of
describe what it does and what were some
of the reasons you decided to kind of
use server lists for this new service
sure so it's it's it's actually an old
service called called rusty box it's
been around for I think going on ten
years or so it was it was built and
maintained by a third-party vendor for a
long time and it's the service that
reduced on cross for mobile apps but
also across the websites for saving and
allowing users to view their saved
recipes so pretty simple in concept but
we decided that we want to bring this
in-house it was a service it was really
important to us
it was maintained by a third-party
vendor so it was hard for us to get
changes made sure we had a lot of
enhancements that we wanted to make it
is we're exploring new platforms who
wanted to to show to be able to enhance
it so we we thought this could be a good
candidate for first server listens you
know and his course it's relatively
simple and so we started doing some
PLC's around it the recipe box service
you know how'd you decide to build this
and what did the initial architecture
look like yeah sure so we uh like I said
there was an existing restaurant service
so we wanted to stand up the new recipe
box in parallel and rather than do a
sort of a big bang migration we wanted
to move over apps gradually from the old
service to the new service so we it's
running in parallel and then they would
keep it in sync which has a lot of
complexity to us so at the core it's
your fuel and as an API gateway and some
dynamodb tables but the parts that are
keeping on sync at a little bit of
complexity so we have asked us queues we
have
lambdas processing messages from the ask
you ask you is we have a step function
that we use to do the migration it's
really interesting about step functions
for the migration and a mission they
were running in parallel to so I mean
what was the process like and we were
talking earlier it's now fully in
production is that is that correct it's
folding production I think we haven't
moved all of our consumers over to it
yet so we have a sort of a mix of
consumers using the old service and the
new service
yeah and so that's I think that rollouts
pretty interesting - so how'd you how
did you verify that things working and
make sure that it was kind of ready to
go yes so we decided to do it this way
for a few diversions one is we didn't
want to have to do a sort of a big vein
release and Kortney amongst a bunch of
different teams and then and then the
other thing is this is why we must to do
migration sort of on demand so as users
access the nude new rusty bolts were
able to run that step function - to
migrate users over as they're seen so we
don't have to kind of take on the big
migration that's great how long did the
rollout take yeah so we really built
this service and got it into production
for mobile apps in about six months all
right so a lot of people have discussed
different strategies around local for
lambda and you know there's been a lot
of chatter about this I was kind of
really curious you know how your team
managed local development of these
functions especially because you're
talking about sqs who use step functions
lambda functions those are necessarily
available for you on your local
environment
yeah no it's it's just tricky I think as
an industry we're still we're still
figuring this out but for us we found
that that most of our JavaScript we had
as kind of separate packages that
weren't necessarily in lambda then our
lambdas were fair
small as far as just coming out that
calling out to the JavaScript so we were
able to execute then the JavaScript
that's this is the database or maybe put
messages and queues kind of actually
keep that locally just against services
and as far as lambdas go and we use all
of our lambdas are written in JavaScript
and as far as just a function that you
can technically run locally whether it's
AWS services or not and then also with
lambda it's really easy and quick to do
deploy so it doesn't take to one person
tested in the cloud that's great um you
know part of getting to production two
is obviously testing as well so you know
you mentioned it's it's easy to kind of
run the function locally because just a
JavaScript function but how do you test
before you actually do those frequent
deploys yeah so we you know we do a lot
of unit testing with just the standard
JavaScript unit testing frameworks but I
found with with lambda and with
serverless that there's so much
integration worked at that really you
end up with a lot more or you should end
up with a lot more integration tests
than maybe a traditional apps so I think
that's what we really focused on is
writing tests that not only just kind of
mock out all the wait a bit services but
one against either this
that's great are you using the function
tacky or versioning we are not using
function technical version well we are
we are tagging tell unary functions we
tagged all of our functions are deployed
using confirmation and we tagged all of
our cloud formations with the
application with the environment that's
this and you know you mentioned
deploying using cloud formation is that
something that's done manually or using
a CI CD pipeline yeah so we've been
using confirmation for all of our
applications for for at least a few
years and yes we have a lot of
automation already around CloudFormation
mostly mostly wood what else is the
Jenkins pipeline responsible for so yeah
every time we we deploy our code to
master or really any branch Jenkins
picks it up runs the tests and then for
master it'll go ahead and and when the
integration tests and deployed in the
production that's great so now that
we're in production the obvious question
is how do you monitor it yeah yeah great
question give this as I think it's still
another area that the industry is still
figuring out that Julius maybe it may be
lagging it will be on but beginning
there and you talked about all the
interesting things thinks just now
probably the the thing that's been most
useful to us is we have our application
has about I think around 15 years or so
lambdas and each of those lambdas is
riding along stick to cloud watch logs
and how do we how do we get to those
logs to do doing sort of diagnosing so
probably the most important thing for us
is to get those logs into a log
aggregation service we use scalar but he
use zoom logic or even a relic stack so
that's probably the main thing we also
use these new relic new relics
infrastructure service up holes on all
the
I've watched metrics and wasn't to know
reliquary kids uni dashboards and dual
ordered me there or whether you can used
to used to doing later on with x-ray a
little bit but we haven't done a whole
lot these are my experience that still
has a little bit a little bit to go but
it's definitely a promising promising
service and alerting as well so um you
know how do you configure alerts or what
ultimately wakes you up when it comes to
lamda you know luckily we've been lucky
that we haven't had any major major
production issues since what since we
launched but we do have of course the
morning set up we have learning in a few
different places still we have I
mentioned over let's go to scaler so we
do have some learning therefore when our
log starts showing a lot of errors which
triggered inside you relic where we
already have a lot of our other
applications configured how we do that's
great well I was kind of curious um
especially since it's reinvent there's a
big focus on kind of the future of
server lists I think we can all look
forward to foreigners keynote tomorrow
but I'm curious are you evaluating
server list now for other systems to and
kind of why or why not yeah I mean I
think I think my team is definitely bit
by this by the serverless bug I think
the question for us now will be not
rather like weather service is a good
fits like whether it's not a good fit
fit for us so we've already started a
couple of other small services that were
that we're doing that's great what's
your high level process for determining
something was depending whether
something is a good fit or not a good
fit I think for us you know it would be
if if we needed to use a lot of them
just sort of existing code for some
reason
that wouldn't be necessary remember on
our land our team has a lot of a lot of
history with using ruby which isn't yet
supported on lambda so there could be
some some use cases there but yeah well
I mean that's I think that brings up an
interesting question too if any database
lambda PMS or the roof what's what would
what would you like to see or what's on
your kind of lambda wish list for the
next few years
yeah well I mentioned I'd love to see
some some some other language support uh
I love JavaScript and that's a that's a
it's a good language we have a lot of a
lot of history with Ruby that would be a
great language I think go is a an
obvious obvious choice there I mentioned
earlier that we we do a lot with with
sqs rescue s and lambda integrations a
little a little wonky there's not a good
event being triggered with messages
that's great I think at this point we
have a few minutes left for just general
audience Q&A we've got two people with
microphones that are they're happy to
run around if you raise your hand if you
have any questions for Marcus about
lambda or or about service what we're
happy to answer you see if anyone has
any questions we're not what are you
looking for next year in service what
are your predictions for 2018 well I
think I think we're gonna see a lot more
more tooling a lot of vendors adding
more and more support I think because I
think we're still sort of lagging behind
there other things I'm excited to see
what gets announced tomorrow so we
probably see some cool stuff that comes
out of that
that's great any any other questions oh
I think I see ends here I was wondering
you talked about the distributors
architecture but what if you had build
your big application without serverless
what would you expect to have been a
difficulty for this service or maybe in
costs the difference what is the
difference do you think if you had built
your big surface without serverless yeah
I think we're definitely seeing you know
it's kind of hard to compare but I think
we're definitely seeing cost savings I
mean our lambda costs are way cheaper
than you know you see two instances
would have been you know we're using
DynamoDB which can be expensive do you
think there's there's cost savings that
we're seeing also I think there's a one
thing I noticed what services you have a
lot less code I'm always kind of
surprised like sometimes how little code
we have making use of setting the AWS
services to do yeah I was curious I've
got quite a bit of experience writing
land of functions and service
applications and one of the things that
we've run into quite a bit is kind of
what what logging framework to use we
use JavaScript to and you know there's a
plethora of different logging SDKs that
you can use but the concern has always
been even with you know tree shaking and
stuff like that getting some code bloat
into your functions so we've kind of
stripped that stuff out and and just use
a vanilla you know logging pattern so
I'm just curious to know if on your team
you've established any sort of like best
practices or standards around how you
log and instrument your code yeah so so
we're using
I don't remember the package is a fairly
lightweight package that basically does
your logging in the which is a simple
JSON log but then you could also set up
sort of beginning some metadata that you
want attached to each log message so
that's kind of nice at the beginning of
you know at the event we could say that
this is a user ID an invocation idea
then add those to the Jeanette so that
it's not quite bulleted with all of your
log messages your log messages can be
just Pacific four doors no is it okay to
ask you a question claim sure okay so
I'm just the observability that we have
now with x-ray and your relic and other
tools it seems a little well I don't it
seems a little basic to me sorry to say
that it feels like needs a lot more
features and a lot more depth and I'm
just wondering is that gonna come from
new relic or maybe from AWS and what are
some of the key features that you think
are gonna come down the pipe yeah no
that's that's an excellent question
and I think my my initial response is
this is a this is a conversation we're
deeply interested in having with
customers like yourself we think you
know we agree that we're early on this
kind of journey to serverless
and we want to get greater observability
I think everyone agrees on that
but we're really curious and actually
we're currently interviewing a lot of
our customers to essentially discover
what's what's on everyone's wish list
and so it's it's a conversation we'd
like to have and in terms of you relic
it's it's something we definitely wanna
be a part of do you think yeah the - I
think tooling is definitely kind of
lagging or not where it needs to be but
I do think with server lists there's so
many more metrics that are available
through college even though they're hard
to consume under the juice work well
right now but as far as food
observability standpoint serverless i
think it's really really had us like
sort of traditional applications some
what's what's possible all right I think
I think that's it in terms of questions
or it's everyone uh alright well hey
thank you very much and thanks again for
mark yes
[Applause]